Let's continue our
exploration of utility types.
So, we'll talk about this
one called parameters.
This is actually a generalized
version of what we just wrote,
where we extract the types of
the argument of a function.
In this case, instead of giving
us just the first argument,
it's gonna give us a tupple
of all the argument types.
So, as usual, I have my underscore here,
it only exists so
that we don't collide with
the real parameters type.
But take my word for it, this is the type,
this is how it's described.
And here I have written
out in some more plain
language what all of this means,
piece by piece.
So first off,
parameters takes in a type parameter T,
which extends,
meaning T must be a subtype of any kind
of function that has any
number of arguments,
any return value,
that's the minimum requirement.
You cannot say parameters of a number or
parameters of a string.
So that's the type param constraint here,
and
this is the most flexible
function type you can imagine,
any number of arguments that are of
any type, and it returns anything.
Okay, now let's look at
what this evaluates out to.
So we have a conditional type here,
T must be a subtype
of here's that any function type again,
right?
Remember when we see infer
P with no constraint here,
this does not have this
infer S extend string.
This is what a type an infer type
parameter with a constraint looks like,
and down there,
we see nothing after infer P.
So this P could be anything.
What we wanna do is tease out and
extract this.
P is a tuple representing the rest param
of all the arguments of the function.
And if we extract that out,
it means the condition is met, and
we emit P, that tuple,
otherwise we emit never.
Here's another one, very, very similar.
This one gives you the return
type of a function.
T extends any kind of function with
any argument types, any return value.
As long as T matches something
that looks like a call signature,
I don't really care about the argument
types, it can be whatever.
But whenever it returns,
give me that return type,
and hold it for me in a type parameter R.
And in the event that you
successfully met the condition, and
got that type parameter R,
give it to me, otherwise return any.
Here's some more.
It's more of the same.
This is why I'm not having us go through
building each one of these piece by piece.
I'll just point out the differences here.
Instance type,
the only thing new here is this.
It's not a call signature now,
it's a construct signature.
And this word abstract is here
because TypeScript allows for
something called abstract classes,
you can think of them as half class
half/interface where pieces of
the class may not be filled in.
Abstract classes are not
directly instantiatable, but
they can have constructor
signatures rather, and
it's a subclass's responsibility
to conform to that to
make sure that they are type
equivalent to that signature.
And so you could think of this as
like the most flexible type of class.
Abstract classes will work with this
as well as non-abstract classes, right?
This is sort of think of all classes or
classes that are not abstract or
a subtype of all
the possible classes,
some of which may be abstract.
This is maximum flexibility here.
We don't care about the arguments passed
to the constructor, we don't care
about what it instantiates here in
terms of the type parameter constraint.
But look down in the condition,
we've got something that looks
very similar except we're grabbing
what the constructor returns,
which is gonna be that instance type.
And then we return it, otherwise any.
This looks so
close to what we just did up here,
it's just literally adding abstract new.
All right, and
these two I'm gonna put together.
We talked a little bit about this in
types of fundamentals, this type, right?
If you have functions that need
a specific thing to be set for
this, this extracts out whatever
this type is of a function.
And if it's successful it'll spit it out,
otherwise it'll evaluate to unknown.
And this one here,
it creates a type for a function.
This one's actually quite interesting.
Given a function,
it will create a function
type that has the original functions,
this type, removed.
And this involves a couple of steps, so
let's look at this one more closely.
So omit this parameter.
First of all, there's no constraint on
this type parameter, which is interesting.
And here we're saying if unknown
extends ThisParameterType T emit T.
So let's use our subtype language here.
We're saying, if unknown is
a subtype of the this parameter
of a function,
that effectively means that it's unknown.
It means that this parameter is unknown.
Right, cuz this is the top type,
I guess it could be any as well.
But when we're saying a top type
is a subtype of whatever I've got,
that has to be another top type, right?
This type must fit inside
this type over here, and
everything in JavaScript is in
this type over here on the left.
So it's got to be a top type,
and if so, we emit T.
All right, in the case where that doesn't
happen, we're gonna say, all right,
if T is a function signature of some sort,
we're gonna do a double infer here.
Look at this.
We're gonna tease out the arguments and
we're gonna get the return type as well.
And all we're gonna do,
is we're gonna build a new function
type using those two ingredients.
What's missing?
We did not extract out this
type as if we'd done this here.
We didn't do that,
we didn't grab this piece,
we could do it down here,
it would defeat the whole purpose.
Now we're just passing this function's,
sorry, I need an infer.
Now we're literally just passing the
function type straight through as a whole.
But the fact that we're not grabbing
the this type, and we're reconstructing
a new function type using the same
arguments and the same return type,
that means we've effectively dropped
this type, we've omitted this type.
And once we've done that, we emit that.
And if T does not extend this,
we allow T to pass straight through.
But if you think about this and look
through this a little bit more closely on
your own time, you will realize that
this is actually an unreachable branch.
And it has to do with the fact that, oops.
It has to do with the fact that
you essentially would not be
a function by this point.
And if we look at this parameter
type here, you've already
got a check here that states
that this has to be a function.
So, it's almost for
that very last branch at the bottom.
You already validated everything
that was possible to validate here,
you don't have to return T here,
you could just return whatever.
As far as I can tell,
it's just impossible to actually make
this evaluate out to that last thing.
So those are a few more utility types.